Hello! Editor Matt here.
Dracula
ended on November 7, and so this newsletter will go dormant for a few months. We’ll get some rest, hit the gym*, and get our heads ready for the next season of Dracula Daily.
(*The word
gym
here means
library
, of course)
The short version: we’ll restart the Dracula cycle again in May 2025. You’re subscribed already so you’ll get those emails automatically, if you want them.
In the meantime I’ll be working on
creative digital projects over at Brand New Box
(my actual job! call us if you want to make something that uses the power of the internet!) and also side projects like this.
But first!
I want to extend my heartfelt gratitude to you, for reading along. This is the fourth year we’ve read through Dracula together, and it’s such an incredible experience to do this with you. Thank you for reading along.
And
.
If you liked reading Dracula this way and want a keepsake of the experience, or if you want to tackle reading Dracula at your own pace but
with some jokes from the internet
, you can still get the book! It’s available lots of places, and you can get it from a
local bookshop
or an
expedient online retailer
.
OK, FAQ GO!
Q.
Are you doing this again in 2025?
A. Yes!
Q.
How’s it going to work?
A. Exactly the same. If you’re signed up for this newsletter, you’ll get all of Dracula Daily, starting in May 2025. You won’t need to do anything further, it will just show up in your inbox in May. I’ll probably send out a few reminders before it starts.
Q.
But what if I don’t want to read Dracula again?
A. Did you read with us in 2024, and now you’ve read enough Dracula? You should unsubscribe, probably! There’s an unsubscribe link at the bottom of every email. That’s no problem, nobody will get their feelings hurt.
Q.
Sure, fine, but what am I supposed to do until May?
A. You’ve got so many options.
If you want to stay up to date on other projects I’m doing, I send out VERY infrequent emails on a different list at
studiokirkland.substack.com
. If you sign up there you’ll get news on Drac-related things and other weird projects I’m involved in. Examples:
We made a souvenir penny press that moves around our city
We launched a choose-your-own-pathway story (written together with my daughter) that you read by calling a phone number
I started a website to collect
secret pancakes
I promise not to bother you very often with the Studio Kirkland newsletter; it’s almost the opposite of Dracula Daily. We’ve literally only sent one email so far in 2024.
OK, that’s it for now - this email list will be mostly dormant between now and May 2025. See you around!